# tutorial-vivado

This repository contains a simple Vivado project of an and gate with a register afterwards. This repository has the following purposes:

* It shows how to correctly organize folders to add a Vivado project into git. All sources are stored outside the Vivado project folder (work). In this way we do not mix sources and temporal files generated by Vivado and we can easily identify temporal files from source and leaf temporal ones outside the git synchronization process. This saves lots of space in the repository, reducing Vivado projects few GBs to tens of MBs. When using this paradigm we only need to to synchronize our sources and the xpr file in the work folder.

* It shows how to correctly perform behavorial simulations, adding a delayed clock into the tests benches in order to avoid glitches due to registers that change instantly instead of waiting 1 clock cycle. Using this method it is ensured that the behavorial simulation gives similar result to reality.

* It shows a .gitignore file that eliminates all the temporal files generated by Vivado during compilation, and that need not to be synchronized. Although schematic blocks are not used in this project, lines for avoiding unnecesary files generated by block usage are also added, so this .gitignore file can be used in more complex projects with complex block diagrams. Maintain the proposed folder structure to ensure that the provided .gitignore file works.


This repository was generated during an Zoom online meeting to explain the basics of Vivado and how to properly integrate it in git, available [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1MjDh1vYDuOoXsf_icHp2d9PK9E_PW2xe/view?usp=sharing).
